Welcome everybody to our live stream.
Python Bytes here.
So we're going to kick it off.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes,
where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 237,
recorded June 9, 2021. I'm Brian Okken.
>> I'm Michael Kennedy.
>> I'm Mike Rhoades.
Hey, Mike, thanks for showing up today.
Tell us a little bit about yourself.
Yeah, well, thank you guys for having me.
This is actually really fun to be here.
My name is Mike Groves.
I am leading the engineering at a company called Assembly AI.
We are mainly a Python shop,
but we do a lot.
We do speech to text for developers.
We're an API company.
You can really think of us as we are trying to
make speech to text and all of the ways
you can take that text and do things with it
really easy for developers so that they can
integrate this value into their products
and make their customers happier.
- Yeah, that's really cool.
I had somebody who, I had spoken to guys
at Assembly AI for some talk Python stuff,
but someone else that I'm working with
reached out to me and said,
"Hey, I'm doing this stuff with this Assembly AI API,
"and I don't know how to save the file that well.
Can you help me? I'm like, Oh, this looks really simple. This is really nice. So yeah, you guys are doing good work.
Yeah, we try to make it really simple. Yeah. Yeah. Fantastic.
Right, shall we kick it off? I think we should. With the to we
heard of a GUI,
a GUI, a graphical user interface, and this new trend of taking
stuff that happens in the terminal and making it nicer.
We've covered things like rich and stuff before, right?
Yeah, a lot. I love rich.
Yeah, I do too. I'm super, super big fan.
So I want to cover something that's like a derivative of rich from will McGann.
I've got gogan. See, here we are messing up names already. Sorry, well,
and the idea is, if I wanted to create, like EMAX or a richer UI with some like
rich, I can sort of control stuff on the screen and how it
prints. But it's not full on curses, right? It's not, I want
to write in this section over here. And I want to dock this
other bit to the right and have rich automatically put stuff
into it, and so on. So I introduce you to textual, it was
called rich dot to a TUI, as in text, terminal user interface,
but it's now called textual. And the idea is we can have these
cool things like I would like a thing to be a header of my
terminal app and the footer of my terminal app and I want to
dock a 30 column wide section to the left and then just fill out
the rest in a little area that just takes the rest of the
space. How cool is that?
Yeah, this is great.
Yeah, and then each one of these areas is written to and controlled
by rich. So all the nice stuff that we've already talked about
with rich, and the really nice things you get from there. So
you know, if people remember, like, Regolith, you have
spectrums and
like, centered text or right aligned text and tables and just
all sorts of good stuff. So,
think of doing that, but on top of this, like,
it's almost like a layout for terminals.
Yeah, he's kind of rethinking how to do terminal stuff.
So, this,
I know you can do all of this stuff with Cursus libraries and things like that, but
Curses isn't always easy on all platforms.
So he's rethinking all of it, and I think it's really kind of fun.
Yeah, I do want to point out something here really quick.
There's a comment in the readme that says,
"This project is currently a work in progress and may not be usable for a while."
So, you know, just kind of maybe watch the repo
and get notifications and stuff and keep your eye out for it.
On the other hand, this kind of thing, these early stages, a lot of people contact us and say,
"I really want to get into open source. I want to contribute to some project.
What should I work on? Should I work on Django?"
It's like, "Well, that's going to be a little bit complicated.
It's highly polished, and there's a ton of dependencies."
Like projects like this that are in their early stages
are really good for jumping in and getting involved if it sparks your interest.
So...
Yeah, there's a lot of room for people to do things like
added the testing, do documentation,
test on different platforms and really help it
so that Will can concentrate on doing more features.
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Even documentation, like a little tutorial or whatever.
And Kim out in the live stream, hey Kim,
says, "I would argue Cursus isn't easy anywhere."
I agree, it's always feels like,
oh boy, we're going down this path.
Mike, what do you think?
- Well, it looks like a really cool library.
And I think for me, I try to think of what would I use it for
and certainly a lot of internal tooling
that we could use this for to,
so that we can make better ways of monitoring
our machine learning systems and how that all works.
And so, yeah, I think that would be something
I would like to look at.
And yeah, and also just a lot of times too,
is just trying something out,
even if you have like a day or two to just try it out
and hit the bug so you can really communicate that
with the community on what is broken
and what could be fixed.
Yeah, absolutely. I'm excited to see where this goes.
Yeah, so next up, we want to talk about pip-tools.
So, actually, one of the listeners, John Hagen, contacted us a while ago and said,
"Hey, have you covered this?" And we thought we had, but I don't think we have.
So, I'm going to cover it now.
pip-tools, so we've talked about other things around PIP, like poetry,
and there's other ways to,
and some virtual environment controllers and stuff.
This isn't that, this isn't an all-in-one thing.
But one of the things that,
like for instance, Poetry gives you is,
and a couple of other packaging things is lock files and stuff.
A lock file really isn't what it does.
I don't know if it's a lock file or pinned requirements.
But the idea around,
pip-tools does a whole bunch of stuff,
but right now I'm just going to concentrate on the compile part.
The problem it solves is,
let's say I've got,
I'm going to give an example of I've got a requirement,
my dependency is rich and
typer is two libraries I'm depending on.
I could just have a simple requirements.in file that has this,
just those two labels in it.
Then with pip-tools,
I can take that and take that requirements in file and compile it.
I run pip compile,
and then I get a pinned list,
and it actually just goes in and writes the requirements.txt file.
Just from an easy,
I require these things and it'll pop out the actual pinned dependencies.
Now I can deploy this and all the other developers and stuff
can use it and be okay with it.
Of course, before you do the deployment,
please test this.
That's the idea, is you update your requirements
and then test it before you deploy it.
But this little extra step of taking,
I've got a loose list of requirements,
and I want to create a pinned list.
pip-tools also has a way to just say,
let me get the syntax right, upgrade.
So you say --upgrade, and it updates your requirements.
One of the things I love about it also is it doesn't just do one file.
So if you've got a requirements.txt and a dev requirements.txt,
for instance, with your testing tools, pytest and such,
you can throw that in a different file and it'll update those too.
So you can have actually as many requirements files as you want,
and it handles it just fine.
So this is a really cool thing.
Jonathan also gave us an example project,
this Python blueprint that has example code in it,
and it uses this workflow and it has the readme.
If you want to check out a project that uses this, go and do that.
I don't really, actually to be honest,
I don't use the pip-tools for anything other than this.
This is what I use pip-tools for, is just this.
I know it does other things too,
but this is what I use it for.
>> I'm psyched about this. This looks fantastic.
I have a requirements.txt and a dev,
requirements-dev.txt.
And in there, I've been putting like at the top,
here's the stuff that I really wanted to install.
And below it, these are the things I want to pin,
not because I actually care about them
or you would actually need to mention them,
but I want things like to pin the bot
to see that there's a security problem in the dependency
I'm using, not the thing itself.
And so it'll bump the version and fix it, right?
- Yeah.
And that means, I just noticed a couple days ago
that there's these other libraries.
I'm like, where did this come from?
This is in my virtual environment,
and I didn't, it's not in either of those scenarios, right?
Well, some new dependency was added to the main dependency
that I didn't pay attention to.
So now I'm like babysitting the bottom half
of my requirements.txt file,
which seems like a thing I don't want to do with life.
This is beautiful.
I'm all about this.
I'm very much thinking that this is going to be
something I'm using out there.
Mike, you seem to agree.
Yeah, I absolutely agree. And I actually have we do not use this. I do not use this, but I will be looking into this right after this podcast.
Why am I not doing more of this?
This will make my life a lot easier. And I'm definitely gonna look into it.
Yeah.
Now, Juergen brings up, oh, you can.
The pip to PIPtools is awesome.
Yes, it is. And he also brings up that it's all about the app first library story.
So PivotTools is definitely on the app side.
So you wouldn't want completely pinned dependencies in a library
because it might conflict with the rest of the application.
>> Right. Or pin you to say,
I have to have the one that has the vulnerability in it,
rather than the newer one that fixes it.
You don't want that.
>> Yeah.
>> Right.
>> Awesome. Yeah.
So I think.
>> Yeah, I think you're up, Mike.
>> I'm up. All right.
Okay, so here's a hint on the pronunciation, but you're gonna have to give this a shot
on your own.
Yeah, so I'm gonna say it's penguin, but I guess you could call it penguin.
I don't know what the proper pronunciation there is.
But so penguin is a library for automating the generation of tests.
So basically what you do is it's CLI, you set this up, you point it at your code, you
sometimes give it hints and then it goes off and it processes the your files and produces
tests. Just disclaimer here, they mentioned this several times and this is very important.
It will run your code so and it will try many different inputs. So you have to be very careful
with what that code is doing. So they suggest wrapping it in a Docker container to prevent
it from affecting or poisoning your file system.
- Yeah, maybe don't give it access
to the production database, something like that.
- Yes, exactly, exactly.
So, yes, I didn't go deep into it,
but I know that they're using
some interesting search techniques.
This is actually developed by a colleague at a university
and there's a white paper behind it.
I don't think it's here, but if you look it up,
I'm sure you could find the white paper
that's associated, but it's supposed to be a very interesting technique around searching
for the inputs that would find good edge cases. So it does take a while to run, they say,
so you can give it some hints and they talk about that within the documentation. But I
really think this is something for me, when I look at tools, I'm like, "Well, what would
I use it for?" And I think a lot of times we're busy and we don't get the coverage that
really want to get because you know deadlines and you know we want to land this customer and
and so we have to get we have to you know work really quick to get this one feature done and
we don't we only get half coverage instead of getting you know uh 90 or plus so um so
I think this tool could help maybe bridge that gap in those cases and maybe give you a jump a
jump start to to getting the coverage that you're looking for on your projects uh so that's what I'm
I'm looking at it for and I think it's a cool project.
- It looks like one of those systems
a little bit like hypothesis.
Are you familiar with hypothesis?
- Only by name, I haven't actually looked into it.
- Where it kind of tries to determine,
oh, what are some edge cases and some,
like you give it bounds of data
and it'll test different scenarios for you.
It looks quite interesting.
Brian, are you familiar with this?
- I'm not.
I'm actually often leery of test generators,
But I don't know if people find it useful
and maybe it's worth checking out.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- Yeah, it looks neat.
- Yeah, I'm the same.
I would say I'm the same, Brian.
I did, you know, I was a little bit leery, I guess,
about the idea of it.
For me, as I said, I think it's just really that gap that,
you know, if you have a gap in coverage
and you're really just trying to get a quick jumpstart
on your coverage, this might be a good tool to start with.
That's my thought.
- Yeah, yeah, very cool.
That's good.
Although Brian, I don't know
if you really wanna encourage it too much.
You're getting out there.
If I had known about Penguin earlier,
I might not have bought Brian's testing book.
- You didn't need to highlight that.
(laughing)
- Indeed, indeed.
All right, you got the next one?
- Well, I wanted to, I think we're at the sponsor bit.
- I believe we are.
- Yeah, so let's, yeah.
So I don't have our sponsor up.
I got you.
There we go.
This episode of Python Bytes is brought to you by Sentry.
How would you like to remove a little stress from your life?
Well, do you worry that users may be having difficulties
or encountering errors in your app?
Right now, would you even know until they sent you a support email?
How much better would it be to have the error
and performance details immediately sent to you,
including the call stack and values of local variables
in the active user recorded in the report.
That'd be awesome.
With Sentry, it's not only possible but simple.
In fact, Michael uses Sentry on all of
his web properties including Python bytes here.
He actually fixed a bug triggered by a user and had
the upgrade ready to roll out as he got the support email.
That's also Sentry,
but also because Michael's awesome.
But anyway, surprise and delight your users today,
create your Sentry account at pythonbytes.fm/sentry.
And please, when signing up, click the "Got a promo code"
and redeem and enter "pythonbytes," all one word.
It's good for two free months of Sentry's team plan,
which will give you up to 20 times as many monthly events,
as well as other features.
That's pythonbytes/sentry and promo code "pythonbytes."
Yep, thanks, Sentry.
All right, I guess I got the next one.
This one is sent in by a friend of the show, Brian Skin.
Thank you, Brian.
And he let us know that there is something out there
for all of us who love these external packages
and all of these amazing Lego building blocks
that are PyPI, and yet that's running other people's code
with dependencies on them getting things right.
And it's this is under the pipe. So this is sort of pretty neat
in terms of, you know, being officially the Python packaging
authority group, right? I believe. And so it's called the
advisory dash DB. It's a security advisory database for
Python packages published on pipey.org. And the idea is, if
somebody finds some major problem with the package, or
or maybe even worse, maybe it's like a type of squatting scenario,
but more like, you know that part where they were supposed to check the input in that form,
and then they did this direct SQL query?
They didn't do that. Now they are. You really, really should change that
so that they're using like parameterized queries now.
And so there's a vulnerabilities directory that is just a bunch of YAML files.
You come over here like, let's take one here that maybe is security conscious, Bleach.
I love the name of this package.
The idea is you take user input and you sanitize it by putting bleach on it, which is fantastic.
But even the sanitizers can have problems, right?
So we checked this out back apparently in 2020.
There's a problem with bleach in PyPI.
It said in Mozilla bleach before 3.12, a mutation XSS cross site scripted in bleach.clean
when RC data and either the SVG or math tags are whitelisted
and such and such is set like, oh my gosh,
but here's all the version it affects,
and here's the fixed version.
And then there's some more info about like,
where that was spoken about,
like where the problem was discovered and so on.
This is really cool.
So if you depend on these packages,
and we already spoke at the beginning
about how having a tracking your dependencies,
not just the things you directly install,
lets you be more aware of this, right?
that you could look at that pip-tools generated
requirements.txt file and see this problem.
And then very likely GitHub through dependent bot
would even be proposing a fix.
What do you guys think?
- Yeah, that's great.
- I think this is cool.
So how do you use it?
Do you just look stuff up or?
- You let it help you.
I mean, you can come over here and obviously look it up.
It depends on what's going on.
I think more if you're maintaining a package,
you can do a PR to let people know.
There's a triage service, which goes through the NIST.
It pulls a lot of data from the NIST,
what the heck is this called?
The National Vulnerability Database Data Feed.
Say that again.
So like if it gets submitted there,
it gets a lot of the data gets pulled back in.
They have a tool to perform some heuristics
to match that back up.
And then you can do, most importantly,
is there's an API that you can use.
So these vulnerabilities when submitted to this GitHub repository
are then submitted outwardly to this place called the open source vulnerability
or the database for open source vulnerabilities.
And then this has an API that people can call to learn about these problems.
So if you ran, I don't know, if you were an API company,
you wanted to make sure your API wasn't getting hacked by having a bad dependency,
maybe you make this part of your CI/CD or something, Mike.
Yeah, absolutely. I have to tell our DevOps, our DevOps guru, Mitch, to look into this.
Exactly. So I mean, for the most part, having stuff pinned in GitHub will trigger an immediate
security notification to you when GitHub finds out about it when that makes it out. But if you
want to be a little more proactive, or you're a security researcher or something like that,
this looks like a good one. So in the longer term, we're looking, we're working with a
PyPI team to build a pipeline to automatically get these vulnerabilities into PyPI. So maybe
like you could see it or something like that. I'm not exactly sure what the story is there, but
it's a start for basically storing that data and sharing that data and then hopefully like it
it makes its way over to PyPI and such. Sam Morley, welcome. Glad you made the live show, man.
Said, is there a tool that can run like a pre-commit hook? I feel like maybe with just a tiny bit of
Wrapper, you could call that api over at the open source vulnerabilities project
And get some information back
Yeah, that'd be cool. Yeah, that would be a cool thing. Like don't check that in it's got a problem
Don't don't push it. Yeah, exactly
Exactly. So anyway, I think this is a pretty cool one. Thanks brian skin for sending it in
Yeah, so, I don't know
Sorry, but I was gonna say, yeah, you're a C++ developer, right?
And C++ is all about overriding functions by type.
Like, oh, it takes an int, it takes a float.
This one takes a string, and it's totally different.
Python doesn't have that.
Yeah, what's funny is I don't actually use it that much in C++.
I mean, you learn about it a lot,
but I don't, I mean, I normally don't write a whole bunch of functions
that have the same name but take different parameters.
But you can do, yes, you can do that, definitely do it in C++ and C.
And there's probably other languages you can do that in,
but those are the two main languages that I work with.
C#, for example, does it.
Okay.
That's well.
The Python, you cannot.
So Python, if you try to do that,
the second one wins and you just have another name that
is attached to the function.
So I was, and I never really thought that
I had a problem with this, but there are definitely times
where it would be simpler to not try to
put a switch in place or something.
and just have several functions that dealt with related things, but in different functions.
So there's an article called "The Correct Way to Overload Functions in Python."
And maybe it is, but I'm not somebody that likes to use the phrase "the correct way"
because somebody will tell me I'm wrong.
But anyway, it's an interesting article.
You might, for example, hear like, "You shouldn't overload functions in Python.
You're doing it wrong if you do it at all, for example, right?
Yeah, exactly.
Although this is a cool solution. I totally like it.
Definitely, it's a cool solution.
So there's this, there's apparently a built-in way with FuncTools.
So there's a, FuncTools has a decorator called single dispatch.
And what it does is you can decorate a, basically a function signature with a single function.
you say, "I'm going to single dispatch this function."
And then you register all, you do the name of the function,
dot register as decorators around other functions.
And the example shown in the article just uses underscore.
I'm guessing that's just because you don't care what the name is.
I don't know. But that seems like a good way to do it.
And then you've got, then after that, you just have, that works.
It works like you've done function overloading.
It's awesome.
So in the example it takes,
you can call this format function with a string,
with a date, with a date time and a time,
and you actually get,
there's like three different functions that get called.
One for a string, one for a date,
one that just falls back or something, right?
Yeah. I mean, it's a pretty simple example,
and it's pretty clean code.
So I would definitely try to keep
all these things together in one module.
>> You would be mean to put them in different places.
That would be so wrong.
>> Or even spread out in the same function would be terrible.
But keeping them together, this is great.
One of the things that the article mentions is that,
it's called single dispatch because it's based on the type of the first parameter.
If you want to do multi-parameter ones,
there's a third-party plugin called multiple dispatch.
>> Wow.
>> You can just pip install.
Then it works the same, although.
>> I like this one better, honestly.
>> The syntax is a little different.
It probably does single dispatch too, I'm guessing.
>> Yeah, it's just one parameter.
>> This one, similar thing.
It just kind of works on multiple parameters.
I'm digging the multiple dispatch style where you just say dispatch.
This is arguments are list stir.
You know, we're going to maybe get to where Mike is going at the end of the show,
but it would be even cooler if you could just say at dispatch and then put a type
like a colon list B colon stir.
So I want to dispatch on types and stuff like that and have the dispatch
decorator, look at the function that's passed in and look at the
type parameters and then just do that. So you don't have to say
the types more than once. Anyway, I know we'll come back
to that as well.
Yeah, so so I, you know, I'm in a past life, I was I was a Java
engineer. So we, you know, but we call it dynamic dispatch in
Java. And it's, it's actually there's a lot of patterns,
object oriented patterns that that kind of are derived from
that from that feature from the you know, from again, from the
C++. Well, from the old days. And yeah, no, I, to me, this
actually, you know, when I saw it, I was like, Okay, I could
definitely use this for a lot of a lot of cases. I know that like
when you want might want to build, when you have like a
piece of code that has to work with a variety of different
types, but they're very similar types, maybe. And you want to do
something with with that family of types. You know, I think that
that would be something I would think to look at,
to solve with something like this.
Yeah.
I kind of had the same thought,
and I do not think I would make this
any sort of normal workflow use case for my code.
But there are times where you have some code that says,
if argument is the type of this is a list, do this thing.
If it's not a list, then make an empty list,
put it in and then do this other thing.
You know, like if you're doing that type switching already,
like this dispatch thing might actually make it more clear.
Right? It's not common to do it in Python,
but there are times like I kind of want to be able to take a string or a date time
and then just parse the string of it, you know, those kinds of things.
So as an API company, this is actually kind of interesting,
it fits into what we do as an API company.
We have to, a lot of times, you know, we're not very,
we're not overly strict on our input types.
We allow like truthy and falsy kind of types to come in for like Booleans.
And I could see us using this for that, right?
So that way, instead of using all the helper code
we've already written for that, have it more along lines of,
okay, if it's this type of input,
you know, then you can convert it this way.
If it's this type of input, you can convert it that way.
And I think we could probably write some code
to handle our inputs differently using this pattern.
- Yeah, yeah, very neat insight there.
Brian, you blew up our chat with this.
- Well, you wanna pull out some highlights?
- Yeah, all right.
So John Cian says, "Function overloading
"was one of those things like switch statements
"that I missed when I first started Python,
"but then I found I rarely needed it."
Yeah, I'm kind of with you on that.
Like I said, there's a few cases for me
that I'm like, where I'm doing a type check
or is instance of, that I think is the one time.
But that's, you know, a couple times in a whole program.
What do you think, Bray?
- Yeah, I definitely missed it at first,
and now I just don't even really notice it.
- Yeah. (laughs)
Then you've got, you're gonna get it says,
Luciano Romano, Romano also explains this in Fluent Python.
I just read the pre-version of the second edition.
Getting some polish, yeah, very nice.
That's a really good book, Fluent Python as well.
- Yeah.
- Came out there says,
"That's the kind of thing I was thinking of."
Yeah, oh, sorry, that's a different comment.
We'll come back to that in a minute.
And then, Sam Morley,
I don't tend to find this kind of dispatching that useful.
I generally just write a master function
that takes star args, star kdivy args,
and dispatch to other functions, yeah.
Yep, but if you're switching on this instance,
it could be a time.
And then stepping back one quick topic,
Kim VanWijk says, "Would be handy if some pip tooling
"could automatically check the PyPA advisory
"before downloading a package."
Oh, that would be slick, yeah.
I just did a typo squatting and PyPI security episode over on Talk Python and
we had a lot of interesting ideas like almost like a have I been pwned like remember what I
installed and if you ever see I installed something out of vulnerability quick shoot
me a note let me know hey a few weeks ago you installed this thing you might want to get rid
of it now stuff like that I think this is another interesting thing along those lines
all right like kind of cache that data and then just say you know I know you want to install it
And maybe this is what they're talking about with integrating that into pypi.org itself.
Who knows? Very cool. All right, Mike, you got the last one.
Some SQL. Yeah. So, AIO SQL is a, as it says, simple SQL in Python. It's a SQL templating
framework or library that really you, what you do is you give it some SQL files with some,
and has some conventions around how you define queries.
And then it essentially gives you a query mapping
that you can then use in your code.
And this is kind of a, it's a minimalistic way
of accessing your database.
It is, you know, with the A in front of it,
it's natively asynchronous.
It works really well with async-pg.
I know that we use Postgres.
So that was a good, that was a highlight for us
to look at it.
And I think we all have worked with ORMs.
I've come back and forth on ORMs over the years.
I think this is a nice fit for when you have,
when you don't have to do a lot of,
touch a lot of different tables or do a lot of joins,
maybe you have a small microservice
that just needs to do a couple reads and writes updates.
And also I think this really helps
because ORMs, especially when you're dealing at scale,
you have to really know the ORM at a very deep level
to understand what it's doing.
And this kind of exposes all of,
it really just brings you down to the SQL level.
So now you know exactly what you're doing
and you can be a little bit more direct
on what you wanna do with your data.
- Yeah, sometimes you're like,
well, I want to do the join and then the filter,
not the filter, then the adding it.
Like if you're really good at SQL,
you can put these little tricks and like,
it actually likes it better if we do it this way rather than that way and the ORM is probably not
going to let you do that. So let me just describe this to people out there because it's breaking
some paradigms for me. So this is a library that allows you to write queries against a database,
but you do it almost with data access layer style of things. So you don't do a
quote select star from such and such,
you would say like query dot get all greetings
or get user by username,
and you pass a like username equals such and such
in an asynchronous way, which is pretty interesting.
But the way that that has meaning
is you create a dot SQL file
that has like a doc string like thing,
and you write a bunch of SQL,
almost like stored procedures, but just in a text file,
this thing parses it,
and then it becomes like a smart query data access layer.
- Correct, yeah.
So it basically builds out other data access layer
or data access object kind of for you
where you can basically map in these queries.
It's not just queries, you can do mutations
and you can do DTL and all of that.
So yeah, it gives you--
- Like create, whatever, it could be a function call, yeah.
- Absolutely, so--
- Brian, what do you think?
Do you touch SQL much these days?
I'm touching it more and more and I love this actually.
'Cause I always assume if there's a bug,
it's probably in my SQL statement.
But this looks pretty cool.
So get your selects and stuff figured out
what kind of queries you wanna do ahead of time
and then use them in your code.
This is cool.
- Yeah, I mean, I'm very repelled
by writing raw SQL statements in my code.
- Very much like Kim Van Wijk, others like that.
This looks exactly what I like,
like not writing SQL, but not using ORM.
So it's no secret to the world out there
that I'm a MongoDB fan.
So I don't have like direct use for this a lot,
but I do find this super valuable,
especially if people on the team are really good at SQL,
and they're like, "Oh, this library is inhibiting me
from like using my superpower on the database."
Right, Mike? - Exactly.
Yeah, that's exactly.
And I was just about to say that, you know,
if you have a DBA or you have someone who is, you know, basically they are focused or concentrated on the database and optimizing those queries, you know, I think what this allows you to do, then you can go define your queries, you can write them yourself how they are, as developer, and then maybe you can take that to your to the expert and have him refine them for you. Without actually changing the abstraction, right? Like, without Yeah, you still get that. Yeah.
Yeah, there's also times where, like, let's say I've got an internal tool that I want to put together and it needs a database.
And it's really not that big of a deal to tell, like, your IT department and your supervisor and stuff,
you're going to throw up a MySQL database or something and interact with it or Postgres.
But to say, hey, I'm going to throw Mongo in there, that might bring up just a discussion that you're just not ready to have.
So...
Yeah, for sure. Let me suggest a pairing, you know, kind of like as you pair wines, a pairing with this library. I think pydantic might go fantastic with this, right? So you get these results back as tuples. And then you could just, you know, star args that into your pydantic models, and you get your validation and all sorts of like stuff. And then you get a list of pydantic, like your one list comprehension away from something beautiful here.
Yeah, this is that's exactly what we're doing. You know, we're using, you know, I think right now we're building out a new stack. And it's basically it's it's it's FastAPI, gigantic, you know, AIO SQL. Oh, interesting. And you're finding it works well. Oh, it's Yeah, it's very performant. So it's, you know, because it's asynchronous, right? We're using asyncpg all the way down to the database, too. So it's pretty much asynchronous from end to end.
- Fantastic.
This is a really good recommendation.
Yeah. You like it too, right Brian?
It's pretty sweet.
- Yeah, this is great.
- Yeah, I do.
I really like the separation of concerns
of the SQL statements and the Python code,
but the flexibility of having both, it's pretty cool.
- Awesome.
- Brian, is that it for us?
- Yeah.
- Are there any other topics they want to bring up?
- Oh, you know I do.
It's kind of crazy.
So it's not quite an extra, extra, extra, extra
here all about it.
But a couple of things sent in from some listeners.
So let me make sure I credit these.
So Daniel Mulkey sent this one in and said,
there is now, has been for a little while
from Science Direct.
There's a journal for academics called Software X
and this library is pretty cool.
So it aims to acknowledge the impact of software
in today's research.
So if you're in academics, one of the big challenges
is that whole publish or perish sort of thing.
And it would be great to take this cool library
and make it a thing that's out on PyPI
or Conda that people can use.
Oh, but that's gonna take a week and a half
and you really only get credit for your citations
in articles, not in code, right?
So this kind of addresses that to try to give people
place to publish their projects in a meaningful way.
And I just want to point out that there's a special issue
on the software that contributed to the LIGO experiment,
the gravitational wave discovery, which pretty sure
got the Nobel Prize.
I don't totally remember.
But if you just start poking around here,
you might find the word Python periodically in this thing
here.
So over in this one, we got some Python.
I'm just randomly clicking articles,
and they're all coming up Python.
So I think that that's pretty sweet.
If people are in science
and they do this computational side of thing,
check this out.
- Very cool.
- Yeah, that's number one.
Number two, PyCon has been finished for a little while
and we were able to go through some like
medium platform type thing
where we could watch the replays,
but it's a little bit wonky
in the way that the playback work.
Like I had to do some weird stuff
to actually get logged back in after a while.
Anyway, it was fine for live stuff,
but it was weird for playback.
YouTube is pretty awesome for playback.
And here's the, I put in the show notes,
the playlist for all of PyCon 2021 US.
So that's pretty cool.
I don't know how many videos are in here.
It looks like 86 videos.
So if you wanna catch up on the PyCon talks,
there's a really good way.
- Nice, it looks like Juergen had a lightning talk there.
- Oh yeah. - It's cool.
- Yeah, very cool.
Well done.
And also wanna make sure I get the credit
for this one right.
Madison Swain Bowden, who we both met, I believe,
at PyCascades, shared this with us,
that AICS ImageIO, which is used all over
biological imaging and microscopy and that kind of stuff
from the Allen Institute,
Allen Brain Institute, I'm guessing,
is, was just released.
So if you're doing anything with like graphics
and pictures and file formats and stuff for that,
check that out.
And yeah, that's it for me.
I think Mike, you got one as well, right, at least?
- Yeah, so yeah,
so it's PEP 563 was,
I think it's proposed,
postponed evaluation of annotations
And basically there was some,
as I think I mentioned before,
I'm a big fan of FastAPI and Pydantic.
And there was some worry a couple of months ago
that this change would effectively break these projects
in 3.10 if it was introduced.
And so I just wanted to give a shout out
to the community for jumping on this
and just being really open-minded about this
and basically postponing this a little further
so that better decisions can be made
on how to navigate this change.
So I don't wanna go too deep into it,
but I read some of the threads on this
and it was just really positive,
really positive exchange within the community.
And I think it turned out really well.
There was like a unanimous decision, I believe,
to postpone it and it saved these projects
from having to, well, basically--
- At a minimum scramble, right?
Worst case, not work.
Yeah, let me see if I can give the elevator pitch.
There was a proposal in Python 3.10, I guess 5.3.8,
I know, sorry, 5.6.3.
Don't know where that came from.
5.6.3, PEP 5.6.3, where
there's an attempt to simplify and speed up
type annotations.
And by, 'cause right now,
if you wanna do a type annotation,
if I'm gonna say I've created a Pydanic model,
called user and I'm going to say this thing returns a user I have to import user at the top
and it was like well you're not going to get those evaluated or really dealt with unless you're doing
type annotation analysis so we're going to treat those as strings basically right and things like
fast api and pydantic and others were going they would actually get the type information
standard python style and then use that to modify behavior right like to do oh it says it's a list
So we're going to convert from this list of those,
or maybe a list of user, we're going to convert these JSON things to users.
But with this change, it would have said,
"Well, it's a string, and what does user mean?"
If you don't know the actual type where it's coming from,
there could be multiple users.
It could be a user it couldn't track down,
has it been imported yet, all sorts of weirdness around it.
So the runtime behavior of these type annotated things
like typer, pydantic, fastAPI,
we're not sure how they were going to keep working
with this being adopted. And it sounds like it's postponed at least till 311.
Yeah, exactly. Yeah, thanks for bringing this up. That's a good one.
All right. Well, okay, into the show. Do we have any jokes?
Uh, I got some of the for you. I'll tell you, let me know if it qualifies. This is from Zach
RMRF on Twitter says, "Did you hear about the four Pythonistas that robbed a bank?
Three got caught and when questioned, they all stated that the fourth would never be caught,
couldn't be caught because he knew RegX and was something of an escape artist."
That's funny.
Yeah, I think that's pretty good. Well done, Zach. Thanks for sending that in.
Brian, you got anything as well?
Yeah, let me pull it up. So, Rich, not Rich, Will McCougan asked about Rich and said,
said, "Hey, if I wrote a book about Rich, what should, how much money would you pay for it? But
also what should be in the book?" Of course, I said, "It should cover how fast it is to install
Kind of a get rich quick guide.
(laughing)
- Love it, love it.
And I believe the response was something like get out.
- Get out, yeah, definitely.
- Oh, nice.
Will's getting a lot of coverage this week.
That's beautiful.
He's doing good work.
All right, speed of coverage.
Yeah, thanks for being here, Mike.
- Well, thank you guys for having me.
This was really fun.
- Yeah, thank you.
Thanks for everybody for joining on the live stream as well.
Bye all.
Bye.
[BLANK_AUDIO]